We're almost done with this section,
we worked a lot with reactive forms now and in the last lecture, at the end of it with the asynchronous
validator, you saw that the status of this input switched from invalid to pending to valid for example.
There actually is a form state you can track
in general, I'll do this here in ngOnInit. On my signupForm
and on each control of this form, so on get any control too, you have two observables you can listen to,
statusChanges
and valueChanges.
So let's listen to valueChanges.
As mentioned, this is an observable so we can subscribe to it
and as the first argument we passed a callback which is executed when new data arrives, so this will
be the value because we're listening to valueChanges and we can log the value here.
So if we do this, have a look at our form, if I type something here, you see with every keystroke,
the object here is printed, the value of the form actually. This make sense because the valueChanges
fired whenever we change something about the form,
so whenever we type into any input.
So this is valueChanges
and again you can also call this on an individual form control. I'm going to copy this and then comment it
out because we also have statusChanges.
So here, we receive the status
now, let's view this. Here
if I type something, you see invalid because the form is invalid.
If I type something in here where we have an asynchronous validator, you'll see it switched to pending
and then after 1 and a half seconds, to valid. So statusChanges and valueChanges, two nice hooks, observables
you can listen to or you can subscribe to if you really want to closely watch what happens in your form
or again on an individual control and want to react to that.